# wac - WebAssembly in C

A Minimal WebAssembly interpreter written in C. Supports the
WebAssembly MVP (minimum viable product) version of the WebAssembly
specification.

This is a fork of the great works at **kanaka/wac** focuses on making the
WASM Interpreter work on embedded devices compatible with 
Espressif ESP32 and their ESP-IDF development environment. This environment 
uses Amazon FreeRTOS.

Please read the intro at kanaka/wac .

Runs simple WASM code generated by Emscipten or CLANG/LLVM V8.


## Currently limitations:

* Only supports a non-interactive variant of `wac`. No plans to change.
* WASM binary code is included as a static buffer in wac.c 
  Plan is to support network download by integrating the HTTP client component.
* Function import's are unsupported, no dynamic DLL loading, no calls to the OS.
  I might add some support in the future.
* Systamatic testing has not been done.


## Build Instructions for ESP32

Get the ESP-IDF development kit from https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/index.html and follow the instructions how to download, install, and configure. 

The environment variable ```ESP_PLATFORM``` indicates we are building for ESP32:

```export ESP_PLATFORM=1```

Run once, the only thing to do is to adjust the devcie port of your module:
```make menuconfig``` 

In the root directory ```./wac```, build everything:

```make all```  

Flash the built image and start the monitor:

```make flash monitr```

The output is pretty verbouse becasue tracing is enabled (change in platform.h). If everything goes fine it prints the return value, tells its done and reboots to start over. Stop the monitor with ```CTRL - ]```.


## Build Instructions for Ubuntu

The purpose of the Ubuntu built is to give an easier environment to track down bug,
and to study the code.

Follow the instructions at kanaka/wac to install dependencies (works for me on Ubuntu 18.04.
and does not work on Mac OS).

Create the out directory

```mkdir ./out```

Unset ESP_PLATFORM environment variable (otherwise the built will be for ESP)

```unset ESP_PLATFORM```

Make the executable out/wac

```make all```

## License

MPL-2.0 (see LICENSE).
